# People-Analytics
The management of human resources has been found to be an important factor impacting on productivity growth of firms.  It has also been established that productivity growth gained from human resource management is sustainable because a company's practices cannot easily be replicated by another company.  Human resource management practices ranging from recruitment, selection, performance appraisal, compensation, and productivity-improvement programs have direct and indirect effects on the productivity growth of firms.
Good selection and post-selection practices can have direct effects on organizational productivity via cost leadership and product differentiation while the indirect effect impacts employee-centered outcomes and organizational-centered outcomes.  Employee-centered outcomes such as competence, motivation, and work-related attitudes are strengthened when an organization recruits the right kind of people, while organizational-centered outcomes such as increased output, retention, legal compliance, and good corporate image are in turn enhanced by employee-centered outcomes.  The result of good organizational-centered outcomes is cost leadership and product differentiation in the market.
This project analyzed factors that cause employee attrition with the aim of recommending solutions to corporate organizations in managing their human resources. The project utilized the IBM dataset and came up with the 10 most important factors out of 52 identified factors.  The dataset has an imbalance class of 84:16 ratio, hence, we upsampled the minority class to limit the effect of the dominance of people that did not leave the company versus those that left.  The most important factors include monthly income, age, total working years, years working with the company, years working with the current manager, years in the current role, etc.  
Hence, to reduce employee attrition, the above-identified factors should be looked into by the management of corporate organizations.
